Let's do the exercise for part 2.
So moving on right here.
Let's close one, okay, so
first we're gonna once again build and
run the program.
So, I'm just gonna copy and paste this I'm
gonna leave that one open just in case we
wanna refer to it later, oops.
I need to go into the exercises again,
hmm, okay.
So essentially, what we're seeing
here is that HTTP, 1.1 200 okay, and
it says that output was from right,
and this is from printf.
And then here's the same thing, and
let's go take a look at what
the differences are in there.
So first it says, let's try replacing
this number 15 with a call to strlen and
then you have to remember
to include string.h above.
So, this is essentially going to be like
calling right just like we did before,
but now that we've made
header be a variable.
Let's actually just use strlen
instead of like hard coding
the length like we did in part one.
After you're done using that,
now try introducing a null terminator
in the middle of the string.
So C allows you to write
backslash zero and
what backslash zero means kind of similar,
like how backslash n is a new line.
Backslash zero is basically like write
a zero byte at this exact point,
you can do this anywhere
you wanted a string.
So, for example, like you could put it
right after the HTTP, sorry, HTTP and
HTTP, and
just say backslash zero right there, and
you might be able to predict
what that's going to do.
But try to make a guess of what you
think it's gonna do before you actually
run the program and
then run it and see what happens.
Okay, and then we have the second
thing that's like, hey,
that output was from right,
this is from printf.
And now we can try changing the %s here to
%zud, there's gonna be a little compiler
warning, but you can just ignore that and
that's gonna print out the memory address.
We can actually see what that is and
that's gonna be different depending on
what machine you're running on,
potentially.
And then finally, try changing this back
to percent s, and then replace the printfs
last argument, which was right now header,
with this argument instead.
And then also try it with the number
zero instead of that number and
you can see some interesting stuff for
what those prints.
>> Richard Feldman: Let's go through the
solutions really quick, so to begin with,
we've just got this, we'll just make
sure that's working okay, looks good.
So now we can go ahead and
delete this part,
so first thing we're gonna do is replace
the 15 with a call to strlen of header.
So again, remembering that strlen is going
to receive this actual memory address, so
sterland takes an integer.
The recurring theme that we're gonna see
throughout this course is a lot of C
functions actually just take integers.
They just might have fancier types,
but at runtime they're all integers,
how does it know where the end of
the strength is to calculate the length?
Well, it's just gonna keep walking
until it gets to a zero byte.
Now we do have an error here,
which is basically saying like, hey,
this is an undeclared library function,
been fair enough.
And the solution to that is we're just
going to go grab string dot h, and
then we're all set so
this should do exactly the same thing.
The only difference is that now it's
computing the length of the string.
Normally, this would be a runtime,
but after optimizations,
it's actually going to be
done at compile time, and
we won't actually have to wait for
it to walk that at runtime.
Okay, now that we're using strlen, we can
mess this up by adding a backslash zero in
here somewhere so
that's essentially going to insert.
We're gonna have three normal bytes,
then we're gonna have a zero byte,
we're gonna have a bunch of other bytes.
But because write is like,
give me how many bytes you want to write,
now it's gonna truncate that.
It's just gonna say HTTP, okay and notice
that this affects not only write, but
also printf,
because printf is automatically doing
the thing that we are now
doing manually and write.
In other words, printf is under
the hood doing that same thing,
like just keep marching along the array
until we hit a zero byte and then stop.
So if you put a zero byte in the middle
of your string, and then printf it,
it's just like I guess that's
where the string ends.
I hit the zero, so there might be more
stuff after that, you kind of intended to
be part of the string, but printf and
strlen both are just like, I don't know.
I saw a null terminator, so I guess
that's the end of the string, again,
an example of C.
There are no guardrails on
this stuff with C, cool.
I'm gonna go ahead and
just put that back, though, so
we can actually see our real HTTP header.
And now we're gonna change this
percent S to percent ZUD, and
there is gonna be a little compiler
warning, but we're just gonna ignore that.
And basically,
what this is doing is now over here we're
printing out the actual string, but
in print F with the ZUD, that's saying,
okay, treat this as a 64-bit integer.
And it's like, yeah, I'll just print that
out for you, now in this case, you might
notice that when I print this out, I'm
seeing slightly different numbers here.
So, they all start with four, three,
something, something, something.
But they do actually end up with, I guess
we don't need the Z, sorry, we don't need
the zud, I guess it's just zu, because
there's a little D on the end there.
But yeah, so this address does
actually change a little bit.
So, and the reason for
that is that basically
what we are seeing [LAUGH] is that
the memory address is slightly different.
Now, you might be wondering why
is the memory address different?
Like, isn't the compiler deterministic?
Why is the compiler generating
a slightly different memory address for
string the same string and
the final binary,
why would it be generating
a slightly different address?
And the answer is actually it's not.
What's actually happening here is that
there is a security feature that operating
systems will do called address
space randomization, I think,
something like that.
At any rate, the point is that because
a lot of exploits will actually try to do
things like what we did in part one, where
we Intentionally read too much memory.
We're trying to like get secrets in order
to try to defeat hackers that are trying
to do that type of thing on purpose.
What they'll do is they'll
actually randomize the offsets of
things a little bit.
So you take the same exact
compiled binary, and
you run it in the operating system.
The operating system will just move
the addresses around a little bit.
And also go in and like tweak whenever
the binary goes and like ask for things.
Just to intentionally try to mess around
with hackers who are trying to be like,
I know if I put in this magic number right
here, it's gonna get the right offset.
I know where the secret is exactly
78,000 bytes after this thing, so
if I inject this perfect
number right here,
then I get the secret right there and
then I continue on.
They're trying to thwart the hackers
by introducing randomness, so
that the addresses are unpredictable and
therefore hard to do malicious things
to so that's what's happening here.
It's not that the binary itself
is like the compiled binary is
putting these in different places,
but rather that that's the operating
system trying to defeat hackers.
And you can see that in C by just
printing this out as hey, yeah,
this is the actual output
of the address itself.
And we can, in this way, really,
really confirm yeah, for real,
this is a number in memory.
Okay, finally, we're gonna change that
back to %s and then replace the last
argument, which was originally header,
with this argument instead.
So, there is that, so
now we're getting a segmentation fault,
very consistently,
we're not printing anything out.
So why is that happening?
Well, essentially, again,
this is just an integer.
And if I say, basically this
parenthesis is saying like, hey,
I know I wrote an integer here.
But just please choose to interpret
this as if it were a pointer to a,
it's a tar star, it's the, as if it were
the address of the beginning of a string.
And I just picked the number one, two,
three, four, five, six, because this is
a low enough address that it's part
of the operating systems reserved.
You may not ever touch this memory memory,
and so, because I'm basically saying, hey,
let's print it, let's touch that memory.
The operating system is like,
absolutely not I'm shutting this
down immediately segmentation fault.
This is a very reliable way to segfault
your program if you wanna do that.
But again, C doesn't have guardrails on
this if you decide that you want to send
it that memory address instead of the one
of the actual string, C will happily run.
And then the operating system will
segfault for you and then finally,
we can try it with the number
zero instead of that.
And now we will actually see
something that is a little bit nicer,
which is it actually prints
out parentheses, null.
So again, zero meaning null byte, as
opposed to, like the actual number, null,
this is something that printf
just automatically does.
If you give printf a zero here, well,
printf obviously is
like in most languages.
This is where you get a null pointer
exception of course he doesn't
have exceptions so it's like,
well you gave me a null and,
I don't know what to do with that.
I'm certainly not gonna like to go and
try and read memory and
address zero cause that's
definitely gonna seg fault.
So, printf has special case this
to be like, if you give me a zero,
I'm just gonna print
out parentheses null so
that at least you don't have
a seg fault to deal with.
But it doesn't handle any other cases for
you than that, as we saw earlier when I
gave it 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and
it happily segfaulted, so there you go.
This is an example of not only printing
some basic string operations, but also,
I really, really wanna drive home this
point that this is an integer at runtime.
And so many of the things
that we're gonna see and
see are actually integers
of memory addresses.
And it's just C is deciding how
to interpret those ones and
zeros based on what we ask it to do.